In the previous video, we already learn how
to calculate total IP and subnetmask.
Now in this video, we are going to learn about
Network IP, Broadcast IP, and IP Range.
But we will start with Network and Broadcast
IP first.
Okay, so what is Network IP?
Network IP is the first IP Address in the
network.
And Broadcast IP is the last IP Address in
the network.
Never forget this, okay?
Network IP is the first IP, and Broadcast
IP is the last IP.
Now let’s remember again about the numbers
in IP Address.
I told you in the previous video that the
number in IP Address will be always between
0 to 255.
So the smallest number is 0 and the largest
number is 255.
There are impossible to have minus number
in IP Address.
And it is also impossible to have number higher
than 255 in the IP Address.
Let's say 256, 257, and others. That is imposible.
The numbers will be always between 0 to 255.
Let’s back to here.
Remember that Network IP is the first IP Address,
and the number in the IP Address is started
by 0, so the first IP Address must be 0.
Okay now we have the Network IP, let’s find
the Broadcast IP.
Remember that broadcast IP is the last IP
Address in the network.
To calculate the Broadcast IP, we need to
pay attention at Total IP.
In this case, the total IP is 128, so the
question is 0 to what until the total is 128?
The answer is 127, because 0 until 127, the total
is 128.
May be some of you little confused here, let’s try
another simpler example.
Let’s say the total IP is 4, the first IP
or network IP must be 0 right?
And then what is the broadcast IP?
Here we can calculate 0 to what until the
total IP is 4, let’s write It out, 0, 1, 2,
and then 3.
If you see here, the total is already 4.
Let’s say this is for computer 1, this for
computer 2, this for computer 3, and this for
computer 4.
So 0 until 3 is already 4.
Let’s back to here.
If the total IP 128, so the broadcast is 128
minus by 1, which is 127,
This is same with this, 4 minus by 1 is 3.
Okay I hope you understand about how to calculate
Network IP & Broadcast IP.
But may be you have a question.
I said before that the numbers in the IP Address
is 0 until 255,
but here we only have until 127, why?
In this case, this is the calculation for
the first block subnet.
Or in the simple word, this is the calculation
for the first room.
How about the next block subnet or the next
room?
To calculate the next block subnet, we can
add 0 by the total IP.
So 0 plus 128 is 128.
This is for the second block subnet.
To calculate next block subnet again, we can
add this 128 by the Total IP again,
so 128 plus 128 is 256.
But this is impossible right?
Because the numbers in IP Address is only
between 0 until 255.
So if we have reach 256 like this, we can
stop, because this is impossible to have next
block subnet.
Okay, so here, in the first block subnet or
first room.
The network is 0, and the broadcast is 127..
In the second block subnet or second room,
the network 128, and the broadcast is 255.
How we get 255?
We get this from 256 minus 1.
This is same for 127, we can get this by 128
minus 1.
I think this is the easiest way to calculate
Network IP and Broadcast IP.
So first we calculate the Network IP for all
block subnet, the network in the first block
subnet must be 0, the network in the seconds
block subnet is 0 plus by total IP,
so we get 128.
The network in the third block subnet is 128
plus by total IP again, so we get 256.
And if we already reach 256 like this we can
stop.
Now we already get Network IP for all block
subnet.
For the broadcast IP, we can minus the next
network by 1, let’s say for the first block subnet
the broadcast will be 128 minus by
1, which is 127.
In the seconds block subnet, the broadcast
will be 256 minus by 1, which is 255.
Okay I hope you now understand how to find
Network IP and broadcast IP.
But if you still confused, don’t worry,
try to re watch this video, I believe if you
watch this video 2 or 3 time, you will be
understand!
But if you already watch this video 2 or 3
time and still not understand.
You can just continue to the next video.
After watching next video, you can back to
this video again
and I am sure everything will be make sense!
Okay let’s back here.
So now for prefix /25, we have two block subnets
or 2 rooms.
In the first room, the network is 0 and the
broadcast is 127.
In the seconds room, the network is 128 and
the broadcast is 255.
We can choose any block subnet to use.
But in this case, I will use the first block
subnet.
Okay, I think enough for this video, in the
next video we are going to learn how to calculate
IP Range.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video!